README.md, before:

# trec-covid
## Workflow 
![workflow](doc/workflow.png)
### Setup
Our retrieval pipeline relies on the following dependencies:  
[[docker](https://docker-py.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)][[elasticsearch](https://elasticsearch-py.readthedocs.io/en/master/)][[requests](https://2.python-requests.org/en/master/)][[beautifulsoup](https://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/)][[matchzoo](https://github.com/NTMC-Community/MatchZoo)]

* Install docker. When running on HPC (Ubuntu VM):  
``` 
sudo usermod -aG docker $USER
```
* Make virtual environment and activate it
``` 
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
``` 
* Install requirements:   
```shell script
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```  
Run `python3` and install nltk data:  
```shell script
>>> import nltk
>>> nltk.download('punkt')
```
* Download data from [semanticscholar](https://pages.semanticscholar.org/coronavirus-research), extract it and place it in `./data/`. 
``` 
./getDataSets.sh
``` 
* Fetch data for 30 topics from PubMed (will be written to `artifact` directory with timestamp)
```shell script
python3 fetchPubmedData.py
```
* **Optional:** Adapt settings in `config.py`  

### Baseline run 
* Download image and run Elasticsearch container
```shell script
python3 docker-run.py
```
* Index data  
```shell script
python3 index.py
```
* Write baseline run file
```shell script
python3 query.py
```
* **Optional:** Delete the docker container and remove the image  
```shell script
python3 docker-rm.py
```

### Reranking
* Train model for each of the 30 topics and save models to `./artifact/model/<model-type>`
```shell script
python3 train.py
```
* Rerank baseline ranking:
```shell script
python3 rerank.py
```

### `config.py`
| param | comment |
| ---  | --- |
| DOCS | dictionary with index names as keys and paths to data as values |
| BULK | if set to `True` data is indexed in bulk |   
| SINGLE_IDX | if is not `None`, all data is indexed into one instance |   
| TOPIC | path to topic file | 
| BASELINE | name of the baseline run |
| DATA | path to directory with subsets |
| META | path to `metadata.csv` |
| VALID_ID | path to xml file with valid doc ids |
| ESEARCH | pubmed eutils api to retrieve pmids given a query term |
| EFETCH | pubmed eutils to retrieve document data given one or more pmids |
| RETMODE | datatype of pubmed eutils results |
| PUBMED_FETCH | directory to fetched data from pubmed |
| PUBMED_DUMP_DATE | specify date of pubmed data for training |
| MODEL_DUMP | path to directory where model weights are stored |
| MODEL_TYPE | specify model type. at the moment `dense` and `drmm` are supported |
| RUN_DIR | path to the output runs |
| RERANKED_RUN | name of the reranked run |
| PUBMED_SCRAPE | bool. if set to `True`, pmids are scraped from pubmed frontend |
| PUBMED_FRONT | URL of the pubmed frontend |
| RESULT_SIZE | number of results to be retrieved from PUBMED_FRONT |
| RERANK_WEIGHT | weight param for reranker score. `default: 0.5` |

### Datasets
| name | link |
| ---  | --- |
| `comm` | [commercial use subset](https://ai2-semanticscholar-cord-19.s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/2020-04-10/comm_use_subset.tar.gz) |
| `noncomm` | [non-commercial use subset](https://ai2-semanticscholar-cord-19.s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/2020-04-10/noncomm_use_subset.tar.gz) |   
| `custom` | [custom license subset ](https://ai2-semanticscholar-cord-19.s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/2020-04-10/custom_license.tar.gz) |   
| `biorxiv` | [bioRxiv/medRxiv subset](https://ai2-semanticscholar-cord-19.s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/2020-04-10/biorxiv_medrxiv.tar.gz) |

Commit message:

add submission details to readme

README.md, after:

# trec-covid

## Submission details round #1

#### Description:
In the course of our participation in TREC-COVID, we submit automatic runs based on (pseudo) relevance feedback in combination with a reranking approach.
The reranker is trained on relevance feedback data that is retrieved from PubMed/PubMed Central (PMC). 
The training data is retrieved with queries using the contents of the `<query>` tags only.

For each topic a new reranker is trained. We consider those documents retrieved by the specific topic query as relevant training data,
and the documents of the other 29 topics as non-relevant training data.
Given a baseline run, the trained system reranks documents.

The baseline run is retrieved with the default ranker of Elasticsearch/Lucene and queries using the contents of the `<query>` tags only.
For our reranker we use glove embeddings in combination with the Deep Relevance Matching Model (DRMM).

Our three run submissions that differ by the training data retrieved from PubMed/PMC.
1. The first run is trained on title and abstracts retrieved from PubMed's Entrez Programming Utilities API with "type=relevance".
2. The second run is trained on title and abstracts retrieved from PubMed articles that are returned by the search interface with "best match". We scrape the PMIDs and retrieve the titles and abstracts afterwards.
3. The third run is trained on full text documents retrieved from PMC.

## Workflow 
![workflow](doc/workflow.png)
### Setup
Our retrieval pipeline relies on the following dependencies:  
[[docker](https://docker-py.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)][[elasticsearch](https://elasticsearch-py.readthedocs.io/en/master/)][[requests](https://2.python-requests.org/en/master/)][[beautifulsoup](https://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/)][[matchzoo](https://github.com/NTMC-Community/MatchZoo)]

* Install docker. When running on HPC (Ubuntu VM):  
``` 
sudo usermod -aG docker $USER
```
* Make virtual environment and activate it
``` 
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
``` 
* Install requirements:   
```shell script
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```  
Run `python3` and install nltk data:  
```shell script
>>> import nltk
>>> nltk.download('punkt')
```
* Download data from [semanticscholar](https://pages.semanticscholar.org/coronavirus-research), extract it and place it in `./data/`. 
``` 
./getDataSets.sh
``` 
* Fetch data for 30 topics from PubMed (will be written to `artifact` directory with timestamp)
```shell script
python3 fetchPubmedData.py
```
* **Optional:** Adapt settings in `config.py`  

### Baseline run 
* Download image and run Elasticsearch container
```shell script
python3 docker-run.py
```
* Index data  
```shell script
python3 index.py
```
* Write baseline run file
```shell script
python3 query.py
```
* **Optional:** Delete the docker container and remove the image  
```shell script
python3 docker-rm.py
```

### Reranking
* Train model for each of the 30 topics and save models to `./artifact/model/<model-type>`
```shell script
python3 train.py
```
* Rerank baseline ranking:
```shell script
python3 rerank.py
```

### `config.py`
| param | comment |
| ---  | --- |
| DOCS | dictionary with index names as keys and paths to data as values |
| BULK | if set to `True` data is indexed in bulk |   
| SINGLE_IDX | if is not `None`, all data is indexed into one instance |   
| TOPIC | path to topic file | 
| BASELINE | name of the baseline run |
| DATA | path to directory with subsets |
| META | path to `metadata.csv` |
| VALID_ID | path to xml file with valid doc ids |
| ESEARCH | pubmed eutils api to retrieve pmids given a query term |
| EFETCH | pubmed eutils to retrieve document data given one or more pmids |
| RETMODE | datatype of pubmed eutils results |
| PUBMED_FETCH | directory to fetched data from pubmed |
| PUBMED_DUMP_DATE | specify date of pubmed data for training |
| MODEL_DUMP | path to directory where model weights are stored |
| MODEL_TYPE | specify model type. at the moment `dense` and `drmm` are supported |
| RUN_DIR | path to the output runs |
| RERANKED_RUN | name of the reranked run |
| PUBMED_SCRAPE | bool. if set to `True`, pmids are scraped from pubmed frontend |
| PUBMED_FRONT | URL of the pubmed frontend |
| RESULT_SIZE | number of results to be retrieved from PUBMED_FRONT |
| RERANK_WEIGHT | weight param for reranker score. `default: 0.5` |

### Datasets
| name | link |
| ---  | --- |
| `comm` | [commercial use subset](https://ai2-semanticscholar-cord-19.s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/2020-04-10/comm_use_subset.tar.gz) |
| `noncomm` | [non-commercial use subset](https://ai2-semanticscholar-cord-19.s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/2020-04-10/noncomm_use_subset.tar.gz) |   
| `custom` | [custom license subset ](https://ai2-semanticscholar-cord-19.s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/2020-04-10/custom_license.tar.gz) |   
| `biorxiv` | [bioRxiv/medRxiv subset](https://ai2-semanticscholar-cord-19.s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/2020-04-10/biorxiv_medrxiv.tar.gz) |
